["Reporting From The Scene" by AVBE fading in]
[Background music damping]
[Nicholas Defranco, narrating] Google confirmed on
Wednesday, February 22 that it
is blocking access to online news for less
than four percent of its Canadian use in what
the company describes as a short-lived test
in response to the liberal government's
Online News Act: Bill C-18.
Bill C-18 would require digital giants
such as Google and
meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram, to negotiate
deals to compensate Canadian media companies
for displaying
or providing links to their news content.
Larger media companies have praised the bill as a
way to create a level playing field against Google
and Facebook, which compete with them
for advertising dollars.
Tech companies to push back against the bill,
arguing
it is the wrong approach to enhance journalism.
[Background music amplified for outro]
[Background music fading out]